STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY H.E. AMBASSADOR GODFREY KWOBA, DEPUTY PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE PERMANENT MISSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA TO THE UN, AT THE FIRST INFORMAL MEETING TO REVIEW ARRANGEMENTS ON THE STRENGTHENING OF ECOSOC AND THE REVIEW OF THE HIGH-LEVEL POLITICAL FORUM ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
 (New York, 15 February 2024)
Distinguished Co-facilitators, Excellencies, Distinguished delegates,
I have the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. At the outset, the Group commends the Co-facilitators for convening this first informal meeting and for preparing the key topics to guide our interventions as we share our views on the important issues to be reflected in the review process.
The G77 and China stresses that the last review undertaken in 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic was substantiative, that included several changes, and therefore sufficient time is needed to fully implement the provisions contained therein the resolutions and assess their impact on ECOSOC and HLPF.  In addition, the world remains offtrack to achieve the SDGs by 2030 and the HLPF on Sustainable Development adopted the Political Declaration at the SDG Summit in September 2023 to accelerate actions whose implementation is still in its initial stage. The G77 and China therefore, emphasizes that the 2024 review processes should focus on technically updating the General Assembly resolutions 75/290 A and 75/290 B to ensure that the ECOSOC and HLPF on Sustainable Development effectively fulfil their mandates. In this regard, the group stresses that the 2024 review processes while technically updating the resolutions should only focus on the annual themes for ECOSOC and HLPF for 2025-2027 to follow the four-year cycle (2024-2027) of the HLPF as well as the set of SDGs to be reviewed in-depth in each year.
The G77 and China reiterates its position that the reviews of ECOSOC and HLPF should not renegotiate existing intergovernmentally agreed outcomes. I therefore wish to express the Group's position on the topics as follows:
On the priorities for the reviews, the Group emphasizes that the reviews should focus on the annual themes of ECOSOC and HLPF to fully contribute to the coordinated follow up to and implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in its three dimensions in the remaining time. As the Group, we remain deeply concerned over the slow progress in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in developing countries and we call upon the international community to take urgent action to support developing countries as the only way to rescue the 2030 Agenda. We believe that refocusing the urgent attention on accelerating actions to implement the 2030 Agenda will renew our collective commitments towards the achievement of the SDGs.  In this regard, we also believe that the HLPF must promote and review the implementation of the recently adopted 2023 SDG Summit Political Declaration.
Concerning the review on strengthening ECOSOC, the Group stresses that all arrangements agreed upon 2 years ago remain relevant and should be maintained. We stress that the ECOSOC as a Charter body of the United Nations remains the central platform for coordination, policy review, policy dialogue and recommendations on issues related to economic and social development. Therefore, concrete actions should be taken to accelerate the implementation of all the provisions agreed in the last review to strengthen coordination and coherence in the Council and its subsidiary bodies and not negotiate new proposals.
Regarding the HLPF, the group emphasizes that the HLPF should continue to focus on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. All the arrangements agreed upon in 2021 except the annual themes and set of SDGs for in-depth reviews should be retained. The group stresses that the VNRs remain an important means for all countries to report their progress on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. These VNRs should remain voluntary and country led and in line with the provisions set out in the 2030 Agenda, while we continue to enhance inclusivity, transparency, and accountability in their preparation	.
On the best approach regarding the selection of themes for ECOSOC and HLPF for 2025-2027, the Group stresses that these themes should focus on accelerating actions to advance the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and strengthening multilateralism. The current status on the provision of means of implementation is inadequate to support developing countries to accelerate their efforts towards the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. In this regard, the group stresses the importance of emphasizing the provision of the means of implementation and strengthening international cooperation when selecting the themes.
The group underscores that synergies and interlinkages among the SDGs is critical in determining the set of SDGs for the in-depth review during each cycle, while ensuring the balanced and integrated manner of sustainable development in its three dimensions- economic, social, and environmental. In addition, the Group stresses that five SDGs, including SDG 17 should be reviewed every year of the cycle. This would allow the HLPF to assess a reasonable set of SDGs in depth and address them in an equitable manner, without overloading the agenda. In this context, the group stresses the importance of ensuring that all SDGs are treated equally during the in-depth reviews. Therefore, the Group suggests that SDGs: 6, 7, 9 and 11, reviewed in 2023 when we had the HLPF on Sustainable Development under both the auspices of the ECOSOC and General Assembly should be excluded in the set of SDGs for the in-depth review in 2027, the last year of the current cycle, to ensure they will benefit from the negotiation of a Ministerial Declaration as part of the process of their in-depth review.
Finally, the G77 and China remains committed to engage in the consultations actively and constructively to achieve a successful outcome. We urge the Co-facilitators to take into account several intergovernmental processes currently ongoing at the UN as you plan for the subsequent consultations.
I thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MR. J.R. MUSINGUZI OF THE PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, ON CHAPTER FIVE OF THE PACT FOR THE FUTURE (New York, 8 February 2024)
Distinguished co-facilitators of the Summit of the Future Excellences,
I have the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
The Group appreciates the hard work that you, our co-facilitators made regarding chapter 5 on Transforming Global Governance of the Pact for the Future, so far.
Excellencies, bold and ambitious reforms that create a stable, sustainable, and inclusive international financial architecture are urgently needed, to broaden and strengthen the voice and participation of developing countries in international economic decision-making, norm-setting and global economic governance.
Chapter Five however falls short of reflecting the urgent actions needed to make the international financial architecture more equitable and responsive to the needs of developing countries. This implies further governance reform in International Financial lnstitutions to broaden and strengthen the voice and participation of all developing countries in international economic decision-making, especially the IMF and the World Bank; improved sovereign debt architecture with the meaningful participation of all developing countries; urgent rechanneling of unutilized Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) to developing countries and a new allocation of SDRs; to catalyze their potential as a source to finance sustainable development
This chapter ought to emphasize the need for urgent and sizeable recapitalization of the Multilateral Development Banks to meet the significant financial needs of developing countries; scaling up of grants and concessional financing; the use of innovative mechanisms to increase fiscal space of developing countries; re-examining IMF lending policy, including conditionalities, access limits, surcharges and rationalizing the role of credit rating agencies. It is critical that the mandates of the Multilateral Development Banks are aligned with the SDGs.
We also look forward to the commitment by Member States to the elaboration and adoption of a UN Framework Convention on international cooperation on Tax, since promoting inclusive and effective international tax cooperation is a critical prerequisite for the achievement of the SDGs. We urge all countries to continue to participate and negotiate in good faith towards this end.
Excellencies,
A restructured multilateral system would be incomplete without an improved sovereign debt architecture. The actual architecture that has evolved to deal with debt crises strongly favors creditors and is inadequate to deal with increasingly chronic financial vulnerabilities across developing countries and a debt landscape that has grown massively in scale and complexity.
Furthermore, the Group reiterates the importance of advancing in the establishment of the set of measures of progress on sustainable development that complement or go beyond gross domestic product through a UN-led intergovernmental process in consultation with all relevant stakeholders. The Pact for the Future is an important opportunity to follow up and implement the mandate agreed upon in this year's resolution on Financing for Development.
Therefore Excellencies,
We the Group of 77+China stress the urgent need for chapter five to emphasize the comprehensive reform of the international financial architecture and a more inclusive and coordinated approach to global financial governance, with greater emphasis on cooperation among countries, including through increasing the representation of developing countries in global decision and policy-making bodies which will contribute to growing and stabilizing the global economy and achieving the SDGs.
Thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MR. MARVIN IKONDERE, THIRD SECRETARY OF THE PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, ON CHAPTER THREE OF THE PACT FOR THE FUTURE (New York, 7 February 2024)
Distinguished co-facilitators of the Summit of the Future, ExcellencIes,
We have the honor of deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
We appreciate the work that has been made in chapter 3 on Science, Technology, Innovation and Digital Cooperation however, we wish to remind member states that the Summit of the Future is meant to turbo-charge the SDGs, therefore, the Pact for the Future, in its third chapter must comprehensively address the issue of means of implementation for the 2030 Agenda, particularly, technology and knowledge transfer.
This chapter should stress the important role of science, technology and innovation as pillars, enablers, and catalysts to support sustained, inclusive, and sustainable growth, accelerating the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, as well as achieving other internationally agreed development goals.
In this regard, this Chapter should call upon the international community to foster an open, fair, inclusive, and non-discriminatory environment for scientific and technological development and to support the efforts of the countries of the South to develop and strengthen their national science, technology and innovation systems.
It should include commitments to intensify efforts to extend to all States the benefits derived from science, technology, and innovation with a view to promoting their contribution to socio-economic development, including the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals.
This Chapter should address the existing disparities between developed and developing countries in terms of conditions, possibilities, and capacities to produce new scientific and technological knowledge. Therefore, it should call upon the international community, the United Nations System, and the International Financial Institutions to support the efforts of the countries of the South to develop and strengthen their national science, technology, and innovation systems.
Lastly Excellencies,
Chapter 3 ought to emphasizes the importance of the full and equal participation of all countries in any decisions and processes regarding recommendations for the international governance of artificial intelligence. Any governance frameworks to be developed for artificial intelligence or any other new and emerging technologies must consider the particular needs of developing countries, and should address the potential misuse, including for criminal purposes, of these technologies. To achieve this goal, transfer of technology and knowledge on favorable terms for developing countries, as well as associated capacity-building are of vital importance.
The chapter should also recognize the need to advance fair, inclusive and effective data governance, as well as to enhance the capacity of developing countries of benefiting from the use of digital public goods, including open software and open data, while protecting them from monopolies and unfair practices. nd China also believes that science, technology, and innovation should be at the service of humanity to face the most pressing global crises. The chapter should therefore recognize that flexibilities to intellectual property rights are very important to face future global shocks.
Excellencies,
Chapter 3 must therefore provide concrete solutions for the promotion of technology and knowledge transfer from developed countries to developing countries, as well as for capacity building and technological and scientific cooperation to close the digital and technological divide among and within countries and foster sustainable development in its three dimensions in a balanced and integrated manner.
Thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MS. CELIA KAFUREKA NABETA, MINISTER COUNSELLOR, PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AT THE BRIEFING BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL ON HIS PRIORITIES FOR 2024 (New York, 7 February 2024)
Mr. President,
I have the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary General for indicating his priorities for 2024.
Mr President,
The group of 77 and China acknowledges that our planet is in a state of peril facing dangers caused by wars and conflicts, climate change, poverty and hunger, a global digital divide as well as pandemics.
The Group of 77 and China, agrees with the Secretary General's call for the rebuilding of trust and the restoring of hope. Multilateralism and international cooperation play an important role in this regard. Wars and conflicts are exacerbating humanitarian needs at a time of declining resources to respond to those needs. It is therefore urgent that the international community comes together to address the root causes of these conflicts and find lasting solutions for peace.
On climate change, 2023 has had a record of being the hottest year. It is now time to turn commitments into action. The Group of 77 and China urges the full implementation of the decisions adopted during the 28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, in accordance with the principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities,  including the contribution of more than 700 million to the loss and damage fund to address the losses and  damages associated to the effects of climate change in developing countries.
The G77 and China agree with the Secretary General that there is need for a global financial system that delivers for all. The international structures of finance, production, and trade, including agricultural trade, must be made fairer and equitable. There is an imperative need for debt restructuring and review of austerity programmes for debt repayment plans to support global efforts towards sustainable development, and debt long-term sustainability. The Group supports shifting away from relying on GDP alone as a criterion to determine access to concessional finance and looks forward to discussions on reform of the International Financial Architecture.
Mr. President,
Hunger and starvation are becoming major crises in developing countries. Millions of people are over the edge into food insecurity, followed by malnutrition, mass hunger and famine.  The Group echoes the Secretary General's words "If we do not feed people, we feed insecurity". Progress towards elimination of hunger, and poverty is only possible if we turn our words into concrete actions for developing countries to achieve the 2030 Agenda.
Mr President,
It is more apparent than ever that technology is moving fast and the G77 and China acknowledge that we must be part of the growth and ensure that no one is left behind. The group notes the Secretary General's call and I quote "the  opportunities are tremendous: from transforming education and healthcare, to accelerating climate action and the achievement of all the sustainable development goals." The Group will take part in negotiations that will lead to the development of a global digital compact through an open, transparent, and inclusive intergovernmental process.
Mr President,
The Summit of the Future will be opportune time for the world to get back on track towards achieving the 2030 SDGs. The G77 and China pledge to actively engage in the ongoing negotiations of the pact of the future so that no one is left behind.
Mr President,
The Group is concerned about the financial situation facing the United Nations which is due to the failure by some member states to pay their contributions on time. We continue to encourage member states to pay their contributions on time, in full and without conditions. We encourage the Secretary-General to ensure that the cash conservation measures do not negatively impact important inter-governmental processes currently ongoing at the United Nations. We continue to empathize with Member States who are genuinely unable to meet their financial obligations for reasons beyond their control.
The year 2024 contains a number of crucial milestones and events for the sustainable development agenda. The Group is committed to engaging constructively and actively in all the upcoming processes such us the 4th SIDS Conference, the LLDCs and the summit of the future. In addition, the G77 and China will also participate in major events, including the Forum on Financing for Development Follow-up and the High-Level Political Forum. These events are critical in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Finally, the Group of 77 and China would like to reassure the Secretary General of our support and cooperation in reinforcing the role of the UN as it is mandated in the Charter.
I thank you for your attention.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MS. CELIA KAFUREKA NABETA, MINISTER COUNSELLOR, PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, ON CHAPTER ONE OF THE PACT FOR THE FUTURE (New York, 6 February 2024)
Distinguished co-facilitators of the Summit of the Future Excellencies,
We have the honor of deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Excellencies, Whereas chapter one attempted to address as many issues as possible, we notice that several issues need to be further emphasized and strengthened.
The chapter does not reflect appropriately the three dimensions of sustainable development. While climate change challenges are well articulated, the fight against inequalities between and within countries is lacking and should be strengthened. More so, the chapter is almost exclusively focused on climate change, while leaving unaddressed many other socio-economic and environmental challenges facing developing countries. Accordingly, the Group will be proposing language to ensure that the Pact truly reflects a careful balance of the challenges of extreme poverty, hunger, and climate change to make it equitable and responsive to the needs of developing countries as well as to strengthening the role of the United Nations.
Such imbalance is not in line with any of the multilateral agreements on the subject and creates an undesired paradox in which the text repeatedly highlights the need to save "the planet", but keeps silent regarding saving "the people".
We stress the importance of adequate means of implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and call upon developed countries to agree to commit to a new phase of international cooperation through strengthened and scaled-up global partnership for development. Achieving the SDGs requires new, additional, quality, adequate, sustainable, and predictable financing as well as a bold approach to development finance.
We believe that there is scope for addressing this imbalance, especially considering the immense economic opportunities offered by climate action and a just and orderly and equitable energy transition. The UAE Consensus adopted at COP28 was a carefully drafted and well-balanced outcome which allowed for the support all member states. We believe it is imperative that we live up to the ambition level agreed at COP28, while at the same time keeping its balance.
We therefore wish to re-emphasize that Poverty, including extreme poverty, continues to be the greatest global challenge and its eradication is indispensable for sustainable development and that the elimination of hunger should also be a priority.
Excellencies,
While the text highlights the environmental crises we are currently facing, it fails to point to the equally challenging social and economic crises which are affecting billions of people as we speak. Rising levels of poverty, increasing food insecurity and a surging global inflation are just a few examples of social and economic challenges that need to be tackled together with the environmental ones.
Additionally, negative shocks, such as higher inflation, more restrictive policies, or financial stress, could push the world economy into recession. Immediate measures are needed to mitigate the risks of global recession and debt overhang.
We also consider that the text doesn't have sufficient references to the importance of ensuring that developing countries have the necessary fiscal space for achieving the SDGs, including through commitments to implement the SDG Stimulus, fulfill ODA commitments, promote access to concessional finance by all developing countries, boost debt restructuring and relief, scale up FDI, in addition to re-channeling un-utilized SDRs and making new general allocations.
Last Excellencies,
Chapter 1 needs to address challenges of all developing countries including those of countries in special situations and those facing specific challenges with regards to the three dimensions of sustainable development and the exacerbated negative impacts of climate change.
Once again, the G77 and China is grateful to the co-facilitators for their efforts and will participate constructively in the Summit of the Future and its deliberations.
Thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MS. CELIA KAFUREKA NABETA, MINISTER COUNSELLOR, PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AT THE FIRST READING OF THE PACT FOR THE FUTURE (New York, 6 February 2024)
Distinguished co-facilitators of the Summit of the Future Excellences,
I have the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Our Group wishes to thank the co-facilitators for presenting the zero draft, a foundation for us to collectively build upon. We fully recognize the immense complexities involved in reconciling thousands of pages of inputs with diverse and divergent views. We wish to salute the efforts of the Permanent Mission of Namibia, for championing the priorities of the south.
Your Excellency Amb. Gertze, the Group through you extends its sincere condolences to the government and people of Namibia upon the passing of His Excellency Doctor Hage Gottfried Geingob.
Our Group intends to engage constructively and positively in the process to conclude a Pact for the Future that will lead to concrete actions to  accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development and the SDGs, to achieve humanity's overarching goal of eradicating poverty in all its dimensions and reducing inequality between developing countries and developed countries.
We believe that the timelines set need an extension, particularly the deadline for written comments, to allow for ample time for delegations to consult with their capitals and coordinate positions.
Whereas the draft pact attempted to address as many issues as possible, we notice that several issues need to be further emphasized and strengthened.
Excellencies,
The Eradication of Poverty in all its forms and dimensions should be the key aspect of the Pact for the Future. Poverty, including extreme poverty, continues to be the greatest global challenge and its eradication is indispensable for sustainable development. We therefore would like the Pact for the Future to place more emphasis on addressing poverty eradication.
The G77 and China believe the pact should include a reaffirmation of all the principals of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, including inter Alia, the Principle of Common but differentiated responsibilities as set out in Principle 7 of our submission on December 1st, 2023, on Chapter 1.
In addition, the Group has consistently reaffirmed that achieving equity in the present is the only possible path towards ensuring intergenerational equity.   Therefore, we insist that the document includes language on the necessity to safeguard the interests of present and future generations in an equitable manner.
We also emphasize that water and sanitation are critical for sustainable development and the eradication of poverty and hunger, that water, energy, food security and nutrition are linked, and that water and sanitation are indispensable for human development, health, and well-being.
Financing for development is also important for developing countries. Developed countries should shoulder their historic responsibilities and fulfill their commitments to provide financing support to developing countries, especially through ODA. At the same time, the distinction between ODA and climate finance should not be blurred as the former should be based on the needs of developing countries instead of just targeting climate change issues.
Excellencies,
We appreciate the work that has been made in chapter 3 on Science, Technology, Innovation and Digital Cooperation, however, we notice that this aspect hasn't been given sufficient emphasis particularly harnessing science and technology for sustainable development, or on enhancing developing countries' ability to benefit from technological advances. We therefore call for the further advancement of digital inclusion and the development dimension of digital transformation, for concrete actions and proposals for bridging the North-South STI divide, and strengthening the full, equal, and meaningful access and participation of all in scientific, educational and technological processes.
We also call for the further recognition of the existing disparities between developed and developing countries in terms of conditions, possibilities and capacities to produce new scientific and technological knowledge and to generate innovation.
The Pact should therefore call upon the international community, particularly the developed countries, the United Nations System, and the International Financial Institutions to support the efforts of the countries of the South to develop and strengthen their national science, technology, and innovation systems and their digital transformation.
Excellencies,
Central to the Pact should be the reform of the International Financial architecture. It's positive that the zero draft recognizes the need to increase the voice and representation of developing countries, but more concrete actions should be taken, especially regarding the governance and reform of the IMF and World Bank, the two major international financial institutions.
We appreciate that the Pact contains some of the elements highlighted by the Group in our inputs. However, we stress that these do not correspond to the level of ambition or action we expect from the Pact. We also note that the pact is unable to reference the Bretton Woods Institutions by name. Accordingly, the Group will be proposing language to ensure that the Pact truly leads to a reform of the international architecture to make it equitable and responsive to the needs of developing countries as well as to strengthening the role of the UN in global economic governance.
The Group considers that promoting inclusive and effective international tax cooperation remains a critical prerequisite to the achievement of the SDGs, since it can contribute to an enabling environment that empowers developing countries to effectively mobilize their domestic resources. Current international tax governance structures need considerable improvements, an aspect that the Pact falls short of.
Additionally, the material and monetary losses caused by the negative consequences of climate change are particularly acute after a catastrophe, as it can lead to worsening debt sustainability. Both the World Bank (WB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have recognized that climate disasters can cause a significant deterioration in debt sustainability in affected countries. The Pact for the Future ought to provide for a mechanism through which International Financial Institutions avoid exacerbating the debt burdens of countries that are negatively affected by Climate change but rather enable them to recover. Additionally, we need to scale up lending capacity of Multilateral Development Banks and to place the SDGs at the heart of their operation.
Excellencies,
In the path towards a more just world for the future, it is necessary to change the current unjust and exclusionary international order. In this regard, we welcome the current text of the Pact for the Future for a call to refrain from promulgating and applying any unilateral economic, financial or trade measures not in accordance with international law and the Charter of the United Nations and to maintain it within the text since they affect dramatically the rights and dignity of the people living under those illegal measures and impede the full achievement of economic and social development, particularly in developing countries.
Lastly, the pact needs to articulate more actions that substantively make a positive difference for all countries in particular the developing countries rather than reiterate past commitments.
Excellencies in this regard,
The Pact for the Future needs to give serious consideration to a follow-up mechanism that allows for concrete review of implementation efforts reflected in the pact and avoids duplicity.
Once again, the G77 and China is grateful to the co-facilitators for their efforts and will participate constructively in the Summit of the Future and its deliberations.
Thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MS. CELIA KAFUREKA NABETA, MINISTER COUNSELLOR, PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AT THE FOURTH PLENARY INFORMAL CONSULTATION ON THE FUNDING COMPACT FOR THE UN DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM (New York, 5 February 2024)
Mr. Assistant Secretary- General for Development Coordination, Excellencies, Distinguished delegates,
I have the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
I commend the Assistant Secretary- General for Development Coordination for convening this plenary informal consultation on the Funding Compact for the United Nations development system. The United Nation Development Systems is key in supporting States to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly in developing countries.
The G77 and China expresses its appreciations to you and your team for the first draft Funding Compact and its draft framework for Global Level for Monitoring and Reporting, which form a basis for consultations. The G77 and China is agreeable to the approach on the draft Compact being more concise, objective, explainable, applicable, impactful, and less technical. Therefore, we intend to engage constructively in the consultation process on this funding compact.
The G77 and China as reiterated in the previous consultations remains concerned about the low funding of UN development activities. We therefore wish to highlight the following issues on the first draft funding compact:
First, with regard to objective one: "A more strategic and responsive UN development system, delivering SDG results anchored in UN principles and values," the new compact should contain strong commitments in the following areas:
a) In additional to an aspirational minimum percentage, mechanisms (automatic conversion from earmarked to regular or maximum percentage of earmarked each year; or a levy on earmarked) to ensure a minimal percentage for regular resources necessary for comprehensive and balanced implementation of multilateral and entity- specific mandates, particularly programming at country level;
b) Significant shifts from highly earmarked resources to more flexible forms of funding, notably regular resources, and pooled funds;
c) Broadening the base of OECD Development Assistance Committee donor countries, as only 10 out of 32 OECD-DAC countries contribute over 50% of the total revenue of UN entities. The G77 and China underscores that developing countries are already facing enormous financing challenges, which undermine their efforts to fully implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In this regard, the Group therefore calls upon more developed countries to join the number of contributors to broaden the base of contributors, and;
d) No competition with regular resources, which are critical to enable the UNDS entities to delivery results.
Second, as far as commitments for the entities of the UNDS, we believe the future funding compact should contemplate, inter alia, the following key elements:
a) More effective financial management, with a specific item for guidance and monitoring of measures for operational efficiency gains;
b) More and better databases and information and measurement tools for tracking of results achieved on the ground by the entities of the UNDS, such as on their contribution to the achievement of the targets associated with the SDGs. A more expedited consolidation of SDG indicators will be helpful to that end. These proposals are in line with objective three of the first draft, on "A more efficient and streamlined UN development system", and;
c) In addition, the flexibility of reallocating resources specifically to fund the underfunded development activities of the entities;
The G77 and China reiterate our call for strengthening the core funding and reducing the levels of earmarking as the best solution to ensure that the UN Development System has adequate, predictable, and sustainable funding to enable the UNDS entities to provide the required support to programme countries in the pursuit of their national development priorities and needs.
Once again, the G77 and China remains committed to engage in the consultations actively and constructively on the funding compact, with the view to deliver better results that will improve the funding of UNDS to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
I thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY HON. BETTY AMONGI, MINISTER OF GENDER, LABOUR AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA, AT THE 62 SESSION OF THE COMMISSION FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (New York, 5 February 2024)
Madam Chair,
I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of G77 and China. I would like to also extend greetings from the Chair of G77 & China, H.E Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda.
At the onset we congratulate you and members of the Bureau on your election. We welcome the convening of the 62nd Session of the Commission on Social Development under the priority theme:" Fostering social development and social justice through social policies to accelerate progress on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to achieve the overarching goal of poverty eradication".
The Group of 77 and China thanks the Secretary-General for his report under this agenda item and takes note of the recommendations contained therein.
On behalf of G77 and China, I extend our sincere condolences to the government and people of Namibia on the death of the President of the Republic of Namibia, H.E Dr. Hage Gottfried Geingob.
Poverty, hunger and malnutrition coupled with persistent socio- economic consequences and negative effects of Covid 19 pandemic, geopolitical tensions, the adverse effects of climate change and biodiversity loss, financial crisis, growing global food insecurity, geopolitical tensions have been challenges faced by developing countries, which have reversed the progress towards the 2030 agenda and implementation of SDGs. We are confident that the deliberations of the Commission at this session will strengthen the international community's response to these challenges.
Madam Chair,
IN 1995 the World Summit for Social development resolved to develop national strategies and to establish time-bound and specific targets to promote equality and social justice, eradicate poverty, promote full and productive employment and decent work for all and foster social integration to achieve stable, safe and just societies for all. Governments were called to focus their efforts and policies on addressing the root causes of poverty and to provide for the basic needs for all. COVID 19 pandemic further aggravated the situation of the vulnerable as evidenced by the millions of people worldwide who are still suffering the consequences of the pandemic.
Meager financial resources and weak health infrastructures continue to impact on developing countries while severe food crises, effects of climate change and biodiversity loss and famine conditions make it impossible for developing countries to achieve the 2030 Agenda. Progress towards elimination of hunger and poverty which is only possible if we can turn our words into concrete actions:
First, the developing countries need financial support of at least $3.3 to $ 4.5 trillion annually to achieve SDGs by 2030. For this, resources must be mobilized from all possible sources: fulfillment of the 0.7 percent ODA target; redistribution of the $650 billion new SDRs; and concessional finance from the multilateral institutions and development banks.
For an inclusive recovery of the global south economy, there is need for universal access to social protection as a priority. For this, developing countries need financial resources in the form of grants, and not loans, which over-burden the developing countries. These may be provided by the international community through multilateral mechanisms, among others by International Financial Institutions.
Second, 8.4 million people die yearly in low-and middle-income countries because of poor-quality health care. More than half of those deaths would have been averted in high-quality health-care systems, therefore (SG Report), developing countries require fiscal space to provide social protection and universal health coverage to their populations. We encourage the austerity measures and debt repayment plans mandated by International Financial Institutions to safeguard millions of people in their respective countries from experiencing various forms of poverty and starvation. There is an imperative need for debt restructuring and review of austerity programmes to support global efforts towards sustainable development, food security and debt long-term sustainability.
Third, the intersection of poverty, food insecurity and climate change and environmental degradation call for a sustainable livelihood approach. This can be best realized by reaffirming the commitment of achieving sustainable development in its three dimensions - economic, social and environmental - in a balanced and integrated manner through, inter alia, the creation of employment opportunities for all and strengthened climate adaption and mitigation capacities.
Fourth, equal access to quality education and lifelong learning opportunities including vocational and skills training, can help workers to be more resilient to shocks and can create sustainable employment opportunities. It is also important to recover learning losses during COVID-19, as distance learning is not an option for at least 80 million students in low- and middle-income countries. This reality reflects the urgent need to close the digital divide as a matter of priority. Investment in early childhood education and care contributes significantly to reducing child poverty and breaking intergenerational cycles of poverty.
Fifth, the international structures of finance, production and trade, including agricultural trade, must be made fairer and equitable.
Sixth, in humanitarian emergencies, people living in vulnerable situations including minorities, migrants and refugees, face multiple challenges, including poverty and hunger. Millions of people are facing face multidimensional poverty and hunger starvation in conflict zones. The international community must demonstrate solidarity in line with the principle of burden and responsibility sharing.
Finally, the Group reaffirms its abiding commitment to fulfilling the goals and objectives in the World Summit for Social Development, especially poverty eradication, promotion of full and productive employment, and the fostering of social justice and inclusion.
Unprecedented times call for an unprecedented response from the international community based on the principles of responsibility sharing and global solidarity. There is an imperative need for North-South, South-South and triangular cooperation, to support national efforts to eradicate poverty and hunger, and to realize the commitments made in Copenhagen Declaration as well as those contained in the 2030 Agenda. To save the present and succeeding generations from the scourge of poverty and hunger, the international community should build a global architecture based on the developmental needs of peoples - a global system in which no one is left behind.
I thank you for your attention.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MS. CELIA KAFUREKA NABETA, MINISTER COUNSELLOR, PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AT THE FIRST SESSION OF THE PREPARATORY COMMITTEE FOR THE THIRD UN CONFERENCE ON LANDLOCKED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
 (New York, 5 February 2024)
Distinguished Co-Chairs and Members of the Bureau, Excellencies, Permanent Representatives, Distinguished delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen,
I have the honor of deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
I wish to commend the Co-Chairs of the Preparatory Committee and other Bureau Members for convening this first session of the Preparatory Committee for the Third United Nations Conference on the Landlocked Developing Countries (LLDC3) to consider the draft outcome document of the Conference. The participation of delegations at this session demonstrates the dedication and commitment to the work of the Landlocked Developing Countries. On behalf of the G77 and China, I extend our sincere condolences to the government and people of the Namibia on the death of the President of the Republic of Namibia, H.E. Dr. Hage Gottfried Geingob.
Excellencies,
The Landlocked Developing Countries is a group of 32 countries that face a wide array of unique development challenges due to the lack of direct territorial access to the sea. This remoteness and isolation from the world market, additional border crossings, cumbersome transit procedures, insufficient logistical systems and poor infrastructure cause the LLDCSs to incur substantial higher transport and other trade transactions when compared to countries with access to the sea. Thus, this presents a tremendous trade- reducing effect that has a direct negative impact on economic growth and undermines their national efforts to achieve sustainable development and national development goals. The UN General Assembly during its 28th Session recognized these specific challenges and adopted a resolution on special measures related to the particular needs of landlocked developing countries.
Excellencies,
As we come to the end of the Vienna Programme of Action adopted at the Second UN Conference on LLDCS in 2014, just like in the Almaty Programme of Action adopted at the First UN Conference on LLDCs in 2003, the assessment on programme implementation indicates limited progress towards the achievement of its overarching goal. In this regard, the Third UN Conference on the Landlcoked Developed Countries is a timely reminder of the urgent need for enhanced, renewed and strengthened global partnership to support the LLDCs to address their unique development challenges. The convening of the Third UN Conference on Landlocked Developing Countries in Rwanda, therefore provides a unique opportunity for the international community to agree on special measures that support LLDCs to address their unique development challenges.
Excellencies,
The G77 and China fully support the adoption of the next bold Programme of Action that supports the LLDCs to address their development challenges, in particular those of remoteness, limited productive capacities, inadequate funding, high debt, commodity price volatility as well as emerging challenges like climate change, biodiversity loss and disasters. The G77 and China formally submits to the PreCom for the Third UN Conference on LLDCs the draft outcome document containing five priority areas of action that are important to support the LLDCS in addressing their development challenges for consideration. We firmly believe that through renewed and strengthened partnerships at bilateral and international levels that the LLDCs would be able to adequately address their unique development constraints and also support accelerating the implementation of internationally agreed goals, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals
Excellencies,
As the PreCom commences the consideration of this draft outcome document, it is critical to emphasize that the preparatory work for the draft outcome document of next programme of action commenced with the national and regional reviews by the LLDCs. The LLDCs remain a group of countries in special situation requiring special action from the international community to ensure that these countries are not left
behind. The G77 and China calls for the fulfulfilment of all previous commitments made to support the LLDCs to address their development challenges. We therefore urge the international community that it is now time to scale up support to the LLDCs. In this regard, we applaud the international community for the support so far extended to the LLDCs. We also thank the countries of the South for their support which has demonstrated the solidarity with the LLDCs in pursuit of their national development aspirations.
The G77 and China will participate constructively in the intergovernmental consultation process on the draft outcome document in support to our Landlocked Developing Countries. The delegation of Botswana as the global Chair of the Landlocked Developing Countries will lead the negotiations on behalf of the G77 and China.
I thank you for your attention.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY MS. CELIA KAFUREKA NABETA, MINISTER COUNSELLOR, PERMANENT MISSION OF UGANDA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AT THE JOINT BRIEFING BY THE PRESIDENTS OF THE UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND ECOSOC (New York, 2 February 2024)
Mr. President of the General Assembly Madam President of ECOSOC Excellencies,
I have the honor to deliver this statement on behalf of the G77 and China.
The Group welcomes the joint briefing by the presidents of the General Assembly and ECOSOC which demonstrates a close cooperation by the two main bodies of the UN necessary to promote the mandates of international cooperation in the economic and social fields.
Excellencies,
2023 was a year of challenges for developing countries. The ongoing wars leading to an increase in displaced people and refugees, persistent socio- economic consequences and negative effects of Covid 19 pandemic, geopolitical tensions, the adverse effects of climate change, the continued application of unilateral coercive measures, growing digital divide, financial crisis, growing global food insecurity, among others have impacted the progress of achieving the SDGs by 2030.
To tackle these challenges, multilateralism and international cooperation are some of the relevant tools needed and the group reaffirms its full support to the strengthening of the multilateral system, particularly of the UN system.
In this regard, the summit of the future is an opportune time to build a world where no one is left behind. The group of 77 and China will constructively participate in the negotiations on the chapter 1, 3 and the sections on beyond GDP and the reform of the International Financial Architecture. You can fully count on the Group's  support.
On climate change, the agenda must be fully and faithfully implemented in accordance with the principle of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. The Group urges the full implementation of the decisions adopted during the 28th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, including the contribution of more than 700 million USD to the loss and damage fund to address the losses and damages associated to the effects of climate change in developing countries. The Group also looks forward to the operationalization of the Loss and Damage Fund and its adequate resourcing.
Excellencies,
As a matter of priority we are committed to the eradication of poverty, ending hunger, achieving food security, ending all forms of malnutrition while leaving no one behind. We call for the support of the work by FAO, the IFAD and the WFP including the provision of emergency food supplies, to over 250 million people in food distress.
On the growing digital divide, the group pledges to participate in the negotiations that will lead to the development of a global digital compact through an open, transparent and inclusive intergovernmental process. Emphasis on digital cooperation and commitment to universal and meaningful digital connectivity as well as affordable and equitable access to broad band to bridge the digital divide will contribute to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and will enhance technology transfer and capacity building all crucial to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
In the course of the resumed session of the 78th General Assembly the G77 and China will participate and contribute to the upcoming flagship project of your presidency scheduled in April 2024 during the sustainability week with emphasis on sustainable development in the areas of transport, infrastructure, energy and tourism.
The G77 and China will participate and contribute to the fourth Conference on small and developing States ( SIDS4)  which will take place in May 2024 in Antigua and Barbuda. The Group will also participate in the third international conference of the LLDCs in Kigali in 2024 which will be an opportunity to renew our commitments to this group of countries in special situations with the adoption of a ten-year action programme that responds to their concrete needs and priorities. The group reiterates its recognition of the special development needs and challenges of LLDCs arising from their landlockedness, remoteness from world markets and geographical constraints. These impediments impose serious constraints on export earnings, private capital inflow and domestic resource mobilization and therefore adversely affect their overall sustainable development.
In addition, the G77 and China will participate in the major events, including the Forum on Financing for Development follow-up, and the High-Level Political Forum. These events are critical in following up on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Excellencies,
In conclusion the G77 and China pledge to work closely with the office of the President of the General Assembly and ECOSOC to strength multilateralism towards a more peaceful and prosperous global community.
I thank you.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY AMBASSADOR YURI GALA, CHARG D'AFFAIRES A.I. OF THE PERMANENT MISSION OF CUBA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, AT THE FIRST SESSION OF THE PREPARATORY COMMITTEE FOR THE FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SMALL ISLAND DEVELOPING STATES
 (New York, 22 January 2024)
Distinguished co-chairs of the preparatory committee, Excellences,
As requested by the Chair, I have the honor of deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
The case of SIDS is a clear example of the implementation gap of the main documents and action programmes on sustainable development agreed in the United Nations.
The vulnerability of islands and coastal areas was first recognized at the 44th session of the UNGA in 1989, when the GA adopted resolution 44/206 on the possible adverse effects of sea-level rise on islands and coastal areas, particularly low lying coastal areas. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in 1992 in Rio, adopted Agenda 21 and a programme of action for sustainable development. Agenda 21 included a programme area on the sustainable development of small islands.
The UN Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of SIDS, held in Barbados in 1994, adopted the Barbados Programme of Action for sustainable development of SIDS. The priority areas identified by the BPOA include: climate change, natural and environmental disasters, management of wastes, coastal and marine resources, fresh water resources, land resources, energy resources, tourism, biodiversity, transport and communication and science and technology. It also identified several cross-sectoral areas requiring attention including capacity-building, institutional development at regional, national and international levels, cooperation in the transfer of environmentally sound technology, trade and economic diversification and finance.
At the Millennium Summit held in 2000, World leaders' resolved to address the special needs of SIDS by implementing the BPOA and the outcome of the five-year review of the BPOA. The World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg in 2002, reaffirmed the special needs of SIDS, identified a set of priority actions and called for a full and comprehensive review of the BPOA in 2004.
The preparatory process for the 10-year review of the BPOA included review at the national, regional and interregional levels. Important steps were taken by many Small Island Developing States at the national and regional levels, and that more and meaningful implementation of the Programme of Action would require renewed and strong commitment of the international community to support SIDS in their efforts to meet the challenges, including through increased financial and technical support.
The SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway, adopted by the Heads of State and Government of SIDS at the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States, in September 2014, is a stand-alone, overarching framework that set out the sustainable development priorities of small island developing States between 2014 and 2024.
As we move towards the adoption of a new SIDS Development Programme at the Fourth International Conference, we are in much the same place as we were at the beginning of this journey.
The G77 and China reaffirm that SIDS remain a "special case" for sustainable development in view of their unique and particular vulnerabilities, including their small size, remoteness, narrow resource and export base, external economic shocks, and exposure to global environmental challenges, including to a large range of impacts from climate change and more frequent and intense natural disasters.
Small Island Developing States continue to be greatly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Even before the pandemic, the Midterm Review of the SAMOA Pathway found that SIDS faced many difficulties in achieving the 2030 Agenda and the full implementation of the SAMOA Pathway.
Therefore, there is the need for greater support to SIDS by the UN system and, more broadly, by the international community.
The G77 and China urge a full and effective implementation of both agendas, particularly the fulfilment of the provisions of all means of implementation. In this regard, we also encourage the initiatives and programmes in support of the sustainable development priorities of SIDS. This includes the further strengthening of global partnerships for SIDS and in this regard, we appreciate the many initiatives already spearheaded by countries of the South as an expression of truthful commitment to this endeavor.
The convening of the Fourth International Conference on Small Island Developing States in Antigua and Barbuda is a unique opportunity for the international community to show solidarity and support for SIDS.
The G77 and China are formally submitting to the Preparatory Committee of the Conference the draft outcome document for this event. It aims to build on the achievements of the SAMOA Pathway and present a comprehensive development program for SIDS for the next 10 years.
The G77 and China will participate constructively in the intergovernmental consultation process on the basis of solidarity with our SIDS brothers and sisters.
Thank you.

---

ADDRESS BY H.E. YOWERI KAGUTA MUSEVENI, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA, AT THE THIRD SOUTH SUMMIT OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA (Kampala, Uganda, 21 January 2024)
His Excellency, Salvador Valds Mesa, Vice President of the Republic of Cuba and Chair of G 77 and China; Excellencies, Heads of State and Government;  
His Excellency, Dennis Francis, President of the 78th Session of the UN General Assembly;  
His Excellency, Antnio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations;  
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I welcome you all to Uganda, the Pearl of Africa for the Third South Summit of the Group of 77 and China. Your personal participation at this Summit, which is being held 18 years after the Second Summit that took place in the State of Qatar in June, 2005 demonstrates your commitment to the work of G77 and China. I commend His Excellency, Miguel Mario Daz-Canel y Bermdez, President of the Republic of Cuba, for the exemplary leadership of the G77 and China in 2023. I would like to thank His Highness, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar for hosting our last Summit.
Excellencies,
The Group 77 developing countries was founded in 1964 at the first session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), at the time these countries were faced with challenges of basic development. It was the first organized effort by developing Countries to unite, to steer their Countries on the path of economic development, in the unjust world economic order. Building on their joint declaration at the conclusion of first session of UNCTAD, these 77 developing Countries, at their first Ministerial meeting held in Algiers, united by common aspirations, agreed to identify collective interests and to pursue their joint efforts towards economic and social development, peace and prosperity. This unity within the Group has provided it to stay on course to promote and defend its members' collective economic interests at the United Nations. We must continue to embrace the founding principles that gave life to this heterogeneous and representative group of nations. Currently, the population of the G77 and China represent 80% of the global population. In addition, its GDP accounts for more than 40% of the global GDP. This shows that inspite of the challenges, the group has registered progress in defending and promoting the interests of developing Countries.
Excellencies,
Uganda welcomes the theme of the Third South Summit of the G77 and China. We meet at the time, where the developing Countries continue to face multiple global challenges that undermine our national and collective efforts to achieve sustainable development and our national development aspirations. We are now passed halfway to the 2030, unfortunately, the overall progress in the attainment of the sustainable development as agreed at the Heads of State and Government and High Representatives meeting held at the United Nations in September, 2015, falls short of the expectations with developing Countries lagging far behind. Therefore, this Summit is an appropriate forum to speak with a common voice as leaders of the G77 and China on the urgent need for effective actions to accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development during the remaining 7 years to realize our vision, shared principles and commitments, particularly the eradication of poverty in all its forms and dimensions and the pledge that "no one will be left behind".
Excellencies,
Setting the path towards the realization of leaving no one behind requires that as a group, we remain united in our demand to the international community to support developing Countries to urgently address the global challenges, in particular; poverty, hunger, digital divide and climate change. We continue to witness the threat to multilateralism and the rise in unilateralism, which makes all susceptible to the impacts of the current unjust international economic order. As the G77 and China, we should continue to work collectively to ensure that we achieve an international economic order that is just and equitable as envisaged 59 years ago at the founding of the Group.
Excellencies,
Uganda remains committed to the pledge to "leave no one behind". In this context, Uganda has accelerated its national efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in its entirety. We firmly believe that accelerating our progress towards the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda is critical to our national aspirations to ensure that no one is left behind, particularly, during this time when westrive to build back better from the COVID Pandemic and respond to other global challenges.
Uganda has identified four key sectors of wealth creation and job creation that include; commercial agriculture, industralisation, services and Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) to support oursocio-economic transformation. The Government of Uganda is implementing targeted interventions in the above key sectors, with a view to ensure that no one is left behind. In addition, we are equally prioritizing the promotion and protection of all human rights, including the right to development, in line with our national legal framework and international commitments. We wish to emphasize that the issue of human rights should be handled objectively and not politicized.
Excellencies,
South-South Cooperation continues to play a critical role in supporting developing Countries in their efforts to achieve self-reliance. In this regard, I commend all developing Countries for their contributions in strengthening this element of international cooperation. As Countries in the Global south, we need to uphold this solidarity, which is a pillar in helping us to safeguard our collective interests. We need to strengthen trade and investment among our Countries. Therefore, the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) leads the way to strengthen intra-trade among African countries to ensure prosperity for the African people. As developing Countries, we should support the implementation of these regional trade blocs. We must also supportstrengthening Triangular Cooperation.
Excellencies,
Leaving no one behind cannot be realized without adequately addressing the challenges and needs faced by Countries in special situations, in particular, African Countries, Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States as well as specific challenges faced by many middle-income Countries, conflict and post-conflict Countries and Countries and peoples living under foreign occupation. These challenges continue to undermine the efforts of these Countries to ensure that no one is left behind. In this regard, we support the call for the international community to provide targeted support to enable these Countries address their challenges. We also support the urgentreform of the international financial architecture to ensure that it is fit for purpose to respond to the financing needs of developing Countries. In our view, the International financial institutions and multilateral development banks must support the national priorities of developing Countries without any conditionalities that infringe on these Countries' sovereignty.
Excellencies,
Uganda is taking over the Chairmanship of the Group at an opportune time when we celebrate our 60th anniversary. I thank you all for entrusting Uganda with chairing of the Group 77 and China for 2024. We commend the African Group for endorsing our candidature for the chairmanship of the Group of 77 and China. Sixty years of the existence we continue after 59 years of our group's existence to yearn for a revitalized multilateral system which is capable of adequately addressing current and emerging global challenges. We firmly believe that multilateralism remains a fundamental and crucial mechanism for addressing our common challenges together as nations in solidarity.
Excellencies,
Uganda's Chairmanship will strive to further promote: acceleration of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda; scaling up action to address climate change and biodiversity loss; strengthening international tax cooperation; financing for development; fight against illicit financial flows and strengthening digital cooperation, among others. This year, 2024, is a crucial year with various intergovernmental processes at the United Nations on issues that are of paramount importance to the group. These include, inter alia, Fourth international conference for the Small Island Developing States, Third UN Conference on the Landlocked Developing Countries, ECOSOC (Economic and Social Council) Forum of Financing for Development Follow up, ECOSOC (Economic and Social Council) High Political Forum on Sustainable Development, Summit of the Future, Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development and 2024 UN Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC COP29), all of which demand that we as the Group, remain even more steadfast in promoting the interests of developing Countries. Uganda, therefore, commits to consolidate the unity, presence and influence of the Group in these intergovernmental processes. In this regard, we look forward to working closely together with all the members of the Group in this endeavor.
In conclusion, it is critical that the Group of 77 and China remains united in its pursuit of collective interests at the United Nations. In the intergovernmental processes at the United Nations, we must ensure that priorities of the Group are promoted and defended. I assure you that my team, led by the Permanent Representative in New York, has my full support to chair the Group of 77 and China.
It is our sincere hope that our Chairmanship will be an invaluable new step to the path towards the realization of our aspirations as developing countries.
I thank you all.

---

STATEMENT BY H.E. MR. SALVADOR VALDES MESA, VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CUBA, AT THE OPENING SESSION OF THE THIRD SOUTH SUMMIT (Kampala, Uganda, 21 January 2024)
Your Excellency Yoweri K. Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda; 
Your Excellency Dennis Francis, President of the Seventy Eighth Session of the United Nations General Assembly; 
Your Excellency Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations; 
Distinguished Heads of State and Government and Heads of Delegations; 
Esteemed participants:
It is for me an honor to participate in this major event convened by the sister Republic of Uganda.
I would like to reiterate my satisfaction for being in African lands, to which we are joined by strong brotherhood and solidarity bonds.  From  our African ancestors we inherited the spirit of struggle and the resilience capability that characterize the Cuban people.
Africa deserves our full respect and support down the path towards development and that is why I greet all its leaders with special affection.
I recognize in particular the leadership of President Yoweri Museveni as a champion of peace and stability in Africa and the world.
Excellencies;
Unity should be the word of order for the G-77 and China in these difficult times when maneuvers to divide the countries of the South proliferate.
Our effective exercise and concerted actions to change the unjust international order in force and rid ourselves, once and for all, of the conditions of absolute disadvantage we have been plunged into after centuries of colonialism, neocolonialism and dependence is both indispensable and urgent.
Great challenges and complex processes characterized the year 2023. At the same time, we were able to show how much we can do if we act in a concerted and determined way in defense of our legitimate interests and aspirations.
Thanks to the collective efforts of the members of our Group we were able to walk down the path towards achieving the status we deserve and need  in the current international context.
The successful Summit of Heads of State and Government of the G-77 and China held in Havana on September last, was both a necessary and urgent meeting. We emerged from that event stronger than ever. Its Final Declaration includes practical actions of relevance for developing countries which, with the efforts of all of us, will be implemented.
The celebration of the Summit of Leaders of our Group in the context of the Twenty Eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP-28), an event that was convened for the first time, creates an unquestionably useful precedent for the future work of the Group of 77 prior to the international climate negotiations.
The Group was also a relevant actor in different UN negotiation processes, including those related to the Sustainable Development Goals Summit and has been instrumental in the preparations for the Summit of the Future.
The stands taken by the G-77 significantly  contributed  to the adoption  of  the Agreement in the context of the United Nations  Convention  on the Law of the Sea in relation to the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Marine Biodiversity in the Areas beyond the Limits of National Jurisdiction.
The participation of Cuba in its condition as Chair of the G-77 and China in numerous international meetings outside the traditional field of action of the Group, such as the Summit for a New Global Financing Pact and the BRIGS Summit, contributed to promote the interests of developing countries in these important fora.
We appreciate the active and constructive participation of the members of the Group in the events convened in Cuba in 2023, particularly the ministerial meetings of the G-77 on education, culture, tourism and environment. These meetings promoted substantive debates and agreements on practical actions related to issues that are fundamental to the South.
We invite you to continue working together in the implementation of the 17 cooperation projects designed under Cuba's chairmanship of the Group for the benefit of our member States.
Likewise, we should continue to make progress towards the revitalization of the Joint Coordination Committee G-77 - NAM, which will give greater coherence and effectiveness to our actions from the South. The fact that Uganda will be chairing both groups this year will no doubt contribute positively to achieving that goal.
In a nutshell, this has been a year of commendable collective efforts and unquestionable results, for which we thank you all.
Excellencies; Esteemed delegates:
As a contribution to this debate and in order to appropriately follow up on the agreements reached at the Summit of G-77 held in Havana in September last, allow me to submit to the consideration of the delegations some proposals for practical actions which, in our opinion, will contribute to the achievement of our objectives:
1.	Submit to the United Nations General Assembly, before the end of this year, a draft resolution on behalf of the member countries of the G-77 and China and convene, on September of 2025, a General Assembly High Level Meeting on Science, Technology and Innovation. That meeting should agree on the practical actions to guarantee that science, technology and innovation contribute to speed up progress through the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Plan.
2.	Convene by the first semester of 2025 a meeting of ministers and high officials of our Group in the fields of Science, Technology and Innovation, with the purpose of identifying the main proposals to be promoted by the G-77 and China at the aforementioned United Nations General Assembly meeting.
3.	Institutionalize the celebration of the Summits of Leaders of the G-77 and China in the context of the Conferences of States Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. This initiative, materialized for the first time at the COP28 held last year in Dubai, showed its relevance and value. It would facilitate the concerted action of our Group in the future climate negotiations.
4.	Organize, by the second semester of 2024, a Fair of Science, Technology and Innovation of the South to show the advances of our countries in these areas; promote joint research projects and encourage the creation of productive chains that would reduce the dependence of western markets. This could be the appropriate framework to design strategies that would revitalize the Consortium on Science, Technology and Innovation for the South (COSTIS), as was agreed at the Havana Summit.
Dear friends:
It has been a source of great pride and honor for Cuba to have chaired, for the first time, the G-77 and China.
We have done so under the conditions of a criminal economic, commercial and financial blockade, which has been tightened to an extreme, more cruel and inhumane dimension since the second semester of 2019.
We deeply appreciate the firm standing of the Group against the unilateral coercive measures that are being implemented against several of our members, including the unjust blockade imposed against the Cuban people for more than 60 years.
On behalf of the people and. the government of Cuba, I express my deep appreciation to all the members of the Group, the United Nations System and the G-77 Secretariat for the support they always gave to us during our term at the helm of the Group.
Today we are passing on the Chair of the Group to the sister nation of Uganda, being aware of the historical times we are living through and knowing that much remains to be done for the well-being and development of our peoples.
Uganda will always be able to count on Cuba's full backing and support. We wish Uganda complete success.
Cuba will always bet on the defense of unity amidst our rich diversity. United, in the pursuit of the aspirations of our peoples, we will be stronger and our voice will be heard.
Thank you, very much.

---

STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GROUP OF 77 AND CHINA BY AMBASSADOR YURI GALA, CHARG D'AFFAIRES A.I. OF THE PERMANENT MISSION OF CUBA TO THE UNITED NATIONS, FOR THE BRIEFING BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE 78TH GENERAL ASSEMBLY ON HIS PRIORITIES FOR 2024
 (New York, 16 January 2024)
Mr. President,
The year 2023 was intense and demanding for the United Nations and world community. Many important meetings focused on addressing the major challenges the international community face today.
For the G77 and China, the outcomes of each of these meetings demonstrated the widening gap in the implementation of key sustainable development goals and commitments. The Group also notes with concern the attempts to reinterpret important international agreements that continue to guide our path.
While taking stock of the progress and challenges in the implementation of key roadmaps such as the 2030 Agenda, we reaffirm the effectiveness of that the effectiveness of the current United Nations consultative mechanisms on sustainable development issues should be maintained.
We must strengthen the implementation of the agreements adopted in major international conferences or at high level events of the General Assembly.
In 2024, we will engage in the preparation and negotiation of a number of relevant processes. In this context, the Group considers the following criteria should be closely followed:
-	Respecting the intergovernmental nature of the negotiating processes, as well as the practices and modalities established in each case. Any reinterpretation of the procedures is contrary to multilateralism.
-	Respecting the inclusivity in the multilateral process. We should avoid overlaps of high-level meetings and negotiating processes that are very relevant for many delegations, especially those representing developing countries. Leaving no one behind also means being inclusive in every process within the United Nations that defines key aspects for the development of our countries.
The G77 and China recognize the results achieved in the field of sustainable development in 2023. They reaffirm that the achievement of the SDGs in developing countries is closely linked to the provision of means of implementation by developed countries.
In this regard, the Group considers of utmost importance the follow-up to the agreements reached in the Political Declaration of the SDG Summit, as well as deepening the reform of the international financial architecture. We reiterate our support to the Secretary-General's SDG Stimulus Plan and urge for its implementation. The G77 and China looks forward to advancing intergovernmental discussions on all these issues, as agreed at the SDG Summit. We expect the President of the General Assembly will provide space and time to progress on these discussions, including during SDG Week in April 2024.
The Group hopes that the new Pact for the Future will make an urgent call to effectively address current development challenges like the ones mentioned above.
We must continue to uphold the role of the General Assembly in addressing these issues if we are to ensure that its universal character guides actions that require the involvement of all nations in such important matters and in global governance.
The G77 and China have consistently expressed the need for immediate and long-term solutions.
The provision of urgent technical and financial assistance to developing countries by developed countries and multilateral development banks, an increase in Official Development Assistance (ODA), concessional financing, voluntary reallocation of unused Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) to developing countries and a new allocation of SDRs, and the immediate and unconditional lifting of UCMs.
Developing countries' efforts to achieve sustainable development must also be supported by concrete measures for technology transfer and capacity building, as well as North-South cooperation to promote industrialization and investment in quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure.
The international trading system should be further strengthened, together with the reform of the international financial architecture, including the governance mechanisms, in particular in the IMF and the World Bank with the view to strengthen the voice of developing countries and achieving the SDGs.
Sustainable supply chains should be built to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by promoting export-led growth in developing countries. To this end, special and differential treatment for developing countries should be strengthened as a multilateral principle. Unilateralism and protectionism, including one-sided trade protection and restrictions that are inconsistent with WTO rules, should be urgently removed.
This is also the case for those countries that suffer from the imposition of unilateral coercive measures, which constitute a serious violation of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. These measures seriously hamper the efforts of the countries concerned to achieve the SDGs and sustainable development in general.
In 2024, we will hold important meetings such as the Fourth International Conference on Small Island Developing States and the Third United Nations Conference on Landlocked Developing Countries, as well as the review of the implementation of the General Assembly resolutions on the strengthening of the high-level political forum on sustainable development, which coincides with the quadrennial comprehensive policy review of the operational activities for the development of the United Nations system. In each of these forums, the G77 and China will participate actively and constructively to ensure that the interests of developing countries are adequately reflected.
Thank you.

---

